(Yuya)
Previously on
"Yu‐Gi‐Oh! ARC‐V"...
(Yuya)
Now that Gong's been knocked out
of the tournament,
where's he gonna stay?
Hey!
Chojiro!?
Shh!
Keep it down, Yuya.
You're going to get both
of us in major trouble.
I overheard some workers
shooting the breeze
outside my room...
(man)
Once they lose, the duelists get
kicked out of their fancy digs.
(man 2)
Nah, it's worse than that.
They're sent underground to work
in a gigantic garbage dump.
(Yuya)
Gong lost his duel.
Does that mean he was
sent to the refinery?
I am afraid so.
(Melissa)
He may be a Common,
but there's nothing common
about Shinji Weber.
He faces: Riley Akaba!
(Declan)
Don't worry, Riley.
Huh?
Declan!
Everything will be okay.
I'm not dueling,
and you can't make me.
If you are indeed
refusing to duel today,
I would like to know why.
Because my opponent is Shinji.
You are understandably
reluctant to attack
an opponent who
showed you kindness.
Moon Shadow.
You will battle
in place of Riley.
(Moon Shadow)
Of course.
Your reaction today shows me
that you are finally starting
to make your own decisions.
I'm pleased
by this development.
You are?
Mother would have a fit
if she learned
that you were developing
your own personality.
If she had her way, Riley would
remain an empty shell forever.
♪
♪ Hey hey,
Can you feel the power? ♪
♪ You vs. me
Competition for the victory ♪
♪ I could be the best one day
and make history ♪
♪ Swing into action
Are you ready to play? ♪
♪ Challenge anyone anywhere
any day ♪
♪ You wanna take a chance
Go 'head and roll the dice ♪
♪ See if it's in your cards
If you'll pay the price ♪
♪ Activate the spell
Let your powers come to life ♪
♪ It's showtime
Who will win the fight? ♪
♪ I'm ready to duel
Go 'head and make your move ♪
♪ I'll win this duel
You can't beat my moves ♪
♪ I'm in that groove
I know I can't lose ♪
♪ Your turn your tricks
Now what will you choose? ♪
♪ Can you feel
the power? ♪
♪ I'll win this duel
You can't beat my moves ♪
♪ I'm in that groove
I know I can't lose ♪
♪ Your turn your tricks
Now what will you choose? ♪
♪ Can you feel the power? ♪
(Melissa)
What in tarnation?
Who's this Moon
Shadow fella?
And why's he
replacin' Riley?
And why'd nobody tell me?
(crowd muttering)
Well, it appears that, uh,
for some reason,
there's been
a last‐minute switcheroo.
Typical Topsider maneuver.
Bending the rules to do whatever
they want, whenever they want.
You think handpicking an
opponent is gonna work?!
Well, this Common's
here to tell ya
that the only thing
you picked was a fight!
My, how primitive.
What do you expect
from a "Common"?
Listen, we have
to stand up for ourselves!
It's time we stopped
letting Topsiders
rewrite the rules
on duels and on life!
But we have no one to blame
but ourselves.
We let Topsiders
run all over us!
(crowd mutters and boos)
That is not the way
to win over the crowd.
These fine folks didn't pay
top dollar to hear you
holler!
You can boo me all you want,
but that won't stop me from
telling it like it is.
Topsiders have been
treating us like garbage
ever since I
can remember.
And we Commons have
sat by and let them.
They've trashed
our dreams.
All you sheep might be okay
with that,
but I for one am going to
take back my future.
I'm going to turn
their world upside down.
Gosh!
Take a look around.
This crowd's come together as
one to have some fun.
And that's
just what they were doin'
'til you decided
to shout and pout!
Instead of turnin' the world
upside down,
how 'bout turnin'
that frown around?!
Shinji, if you want the crowd
to hate you,
you're doing a great job.
(Declan)
Riley, stay here.
I have to take care
of a minor problem.
(Riley)
Problem?
(Declan)
You called for me.
(Riley)
I hope this isn't 'cause of me.
(Melissa)
Now let's remember, y'all,
that the City is one,
and we're here
to have fun!
So, let's act like it
as we sit back
and watch the Friendship Cup
kick into overdrive!
I understand
that you aren't pleased
with the change to today's
duel matchup.
I assure you it's for
the best of the tournament.
(Gray)
It had better be.
(Declan)
There is no need to worry.
You will still get to see
another Lancer
showcase their abilities.
Moon Shadow has considerable
battle experience.
His skills rival,
if not surpass
any Lancer we have,
he will not disappoint.
Does Declan think Moon Shadow
is a better duelist than I am?
Y'all ready to duel?!
Fire up the Action Field
Crossover Acceleration!
(computer voice)
Action cards dispersed.
(Melissa)
On your marks,
get set, go!
(both)
Let's duel!
(Yuya)
Man, one of them is gonna lose,
and that means one of 'em's
gonna get sent
to that garbage dump
underground.
(Riley)
If Moon Shadow wins,
does that mean Declan
won't need me anymore?
Someone is going to fall today,
so, now it's just a question
of how hard and how fast.
(Melissa)Both duelists are
heading into the first turn, but
it looks
like Moon Shadow's leavin'
Shinji in his rearview
mirror.
(Moon Shadow)
It is my turn
and with that honor
I summon
Twilight Ninja Shingetsu.
Then I will activate the spell
Illusion Ninjitsu
Art of Hazy Shuriken.
By sending the Action Card
I just acquired to my graveyard,
I will now deal you
300 points of damage.
Feel the strike of the ninja!
Wasting a card
for 300 points?
A ninja,
how thrilling!
He's ninjatastic!
Bravo!
(Moon Shadow)
Another Action Card.
And another 300 points
of damage.
And again!
Moon Shadow's hittin 'em
harderthan a frozen crawdad.
I'm shelving those
throwing stars.
With that sudden shot of
speed Shinji's stopped Moon
Shadow
from pickin' up
an Action Card.
You may have silenced
my moves,
but the damage
I have done rings loud.
(Melissa)
Shinji's already taken some
serious damage.
Now let's see
if he can dish some out!
I've been an underdog
since the day I was born,
but underdogs know how to bite.
It's my move!
I summon Battlewasp
Arbalest the Rapidfire.
Buzz'em.
Still grabbing
Action Cards?
Grab as many
as you like.
I'm still gonna
knock you around ninjerk.
Arbalest, attack his Ninja!
(Moon Shadow)
I activate the trap Illusion
Ninjitsu Art of Hazy Toad.
By sending this Action Card
to the graveyard,
my Ninja gains
1000 attack points.
Your stinger will now be stung.
(Melissa)
Un‐bee‐lievable.
You might think
that's a nice move,
but when an Arbalest
is destroyed,
I can summon another Arbalest
from my hand.
I see.
Your monsters
act like a swarm.
When one bee falls, another
flies in to take its place.
My bees are like us Commons,
always working together
to make surethe
hive survives.
He's right!
We Commons have always pitched
in to protect one another.
(Moon Shadow)
Now that the battle is over,
Shingetsu's attack
points return to normal.
Well, I'm finished
with all of my moves.
You speak of
the strength of your people.
Well, let us put to the test
your own resolve‐‐ My turn!
If he wins, I lose.
(Moon Shadow)
I activate the spell Ninjitsu
Art of Hazy Duplication
to call upon a Ninja
to fight by my side.
If Moon Shadow wins this duel,
then Declan...
will turn his back on me.
I'll be all alone again.
Duplicate yourself
Twilight Ninja Shingetsu.
Clone as many copies of that
clown as you want.
None can defeat my Arbalest.
Your words would have weight
if I were to attack,
but I will not.
I tribute my second Shingetsu
so that I can summon
Twilight Ninja Nichirin,
the Chunin.
Not unlike your
swarm of brothers,
when a ninja is in need,
his clan springs into action
with the swiftness of the wind.
Nichirin, slice down Arbalest.
(Melissa)
Moon Shadow's buckin'
like a bronco,
throwin' Shinji
for a loop!
Shinji'll have to strike back
hard or he'll lose this duel
faster than a jack rabbit
on jet skates!
Like that changes anything.
When Arbalest
is destroyed,
I can summon another
Arbalest the Rapidfire.
I end my turn.
Strike one Battlewasp down
and another will take its place.
Because they represent
us Commons,
and we never back down.
Oh!
You hear that Topsiders?
You'll never break
our spirit.
And neither will you.
I am not here
to break anything.
Topsiders never had
to fight to survive.
They treat everything
like trash.
And we're sick of it!
It's time for Topsiders
to feel the sting
of what it's like
to live like a Common.
I summon the Tuner Monster
Battlewasp Sting the Poison!
Level 2 Battlewasp
Sting the Poison
tunes with my Level 4 Arbalest
the Rapidfire.
Beat your wings,
bring your stings.
Unite and fight!
I Synchro Summon...
Battlewasp Halberd
the Charge!
(Melissa)
Now that's one critter
who could give
a horsefly a run
for its money.
(Shinji)
Halberd the Charge,
take out his Ninja!
Do not "bee"
so sure.
I grabbed another Action Card so
that I can activate Hazy Toad.
I send that Card
to the graveyard
to increase Shingetsu's
attack points.
If you think that's going to
stop my swarm
you've got another thing coming.
Halberd's Special Ability
slashes your monster's
attack points in half.
What?
(Melissa)
Well pour me on turkey
and call me gravy.
Shinji just cut Moon Shadow a
big ol' piece of humble pie.
You raised your Twilight Ninja
Shingetsu's attack points
to stop me, but it backfired and
you took extra damage instead.
Topsiders everywhere should take
what just happened to you
as a sign of what's
coming for all of them.
The higher you put yourselves
above us,
the farther and harder
you're going to fall.
Is that lowly Common
still jabbering on?
Beats me.
Now hold your horses
and watch your tongue.
Talkin' trash to the audience
is a no‐no.
This here duelin'
tournament's not called
the Friendship Cup
for nothing now, is it?
She is right.
Do not treat your Duel Runner
as a perch for anger.
Just duel.
Aren't ninja's
supposed to be silent?
Guess ninja training isn't what
it used to be.
Nowadays anyone can put on a
mask and be someone's puppet.
Yeah, that's right you ninjas
have no honor whatsoever.
You just do whatever
people tell you to do.
How dare you?
How dare you
disrespect the ninja.
I've never seen Moon Shadow
so angry before.
Ninja's are not puppets.
Nobody controls us.
We act only
as we desire.
You can beat him, Shinji.
And right now,
my desire is to unleash
the devastating power
of the ninja!
Ninjas are not puppets.
Nobody controls us.
We act only as we desire.
You have insulted me
and my whole ninja clan.
For that I will show no mercy.
I tribute Twilight Ninja
Nichirin, the Chunin!
This will mark
the beginning of your end.
I summon the greatest ninja
of them all,
Twilight Ninja
Getsuga, the Shogun.
I look forward
to taking it out.
(Moon Shadow)
You may try but you will fail.
By switching Twilight Ninja
Getsuga, the Shogun
into defense mode,
I can bring back two
Twilight Ninja Shingetsus.
Now return under
your leader's banner!
And Shingetsus protect their
fellow ninjas,
preventing you
from attacking them at all.
Shinji's in a tougher fix
than a pig at a luau.
With those two Ninjas on the
field, his hands are tied.
Ah, that's great...
And even if he
finds a way
to get rid of those
two Shingetsus,
he'll have to tussle with
the muscle of a monster
that's got 3000
defense points!
Moon Shadow's strategy
is more than powerful,
it seems invincible!
What can
Shinji do?!
'Specially now that Moon
Shadow's back to his old
tricks
grabbing an Action Card.
I will continue
to use Hazy Shuriken
to whittle away your
life points.
By sending the card I picked up
to the graveyard,
you are dealt
300 points of damage.
This is getting
kind of old.
The odds are stacked against me,
just like
they've always been.
This building's coming down,
so I suggest you all pack
your bags and hit the road
before you
get demo'd along with it.
(Shinji)
When I was just a kid,
the only home I ever knew
was torn down, and I had to
survive on the streets.
Your story is one of sadness.
I feel your pain,
but that does mean that I am
letting you win the duel.
Ugh, stop it!
(Moon Shadow)
And again!
Don't throw these cards
away like they're trash.
(Shinji)
I remember when I dueled this
snotty nosed Topsider as a kid.
You tried to beat me
with this junk?
Come back when you
get some real cards.
But since you're a Common,
that'll be never.
(sarcastic laugh)
Topsiders would try to knock me
down over and over,
but I would get
right back up again and again.
I never backed down!
Shinji's gone through a lot,
no wonder he duels so hard.
(Commons man)
It's time we stand up
for ourselves!
(Commons woman)
He's right, Topsiders
trash us all!
(Commons man 2)
You tell 'em, Shinji!
(Commons man 3)
If he can fight, so can we.
We can't keep
going on like this!
(Shinji)
Every day, every year,
every moment
these Topsiders treated me
as if I was trash.
As if we were alltrash!
I say "no more."
If we stand together, we can
take these Topsiders down.
I no longer just want to
survive, I want to live!
(crowd cheering)
Stand! Raise your fists high!
Rise up as one!
We must unite and fight!
Unite and fight!
Unite and fight,
unit and fight!
unit and fight...
Unite and fight,
unit and fight!
unit and fight...
(Moon Shadow)
Your speeches won't change
the outcome of this duel.
My strategy is perfect.
I will not break that
which is not broken,
especially since
it will break you!
Not this time.
I activate the
Action Spell Stand Up.
Sling all the stars you want,
but it won't slice
through this shield.
Looks like you're
outnumbered, ninja.
What did you say?
See, you're not just
dueling me anymore,
you're dueling
all us Commons together.
Now's our chance
to unite and fight.
(crowd cheering)
We draw!
(all)
Draw!
We draw.
(all)
Draw!
Together, we will win
this battle.
Together we will make a change.
(cheering)
We activate the spell
Summoning Swarm.
It lets me summon a Battlewasp
from my graveyard for every
monster on your field.
You have three monsters out,
so I'll bring back two Arbalests
and the Tuner Monster Sting
the Poison from my graveyard.
(cheering)
(chanting "Shinji, Shinji")
Shinji, Shinji!
(administration staff)
The crowd is getting
out of hand, sir.
We don't have enough Security
to deal with this.
No need to worry.
Let these Commons
have their fun.
It won't last forever.
Shinji's got this crowd
all riled up.
Now for Sting the Poison's
Special Ability.
By tributing a Battlewasp,
your Twilight Ninja Shingetsu
loses its special abilities.
That means we're allowed
to attack you.
Arbalest, sting away.
Halberd, slice and dice
the other Shingetsu.
My Shogun has 3000 defense
points, so you cannot hurt me.
Not a problem, not with this:
the trap Urgent Tuning
lets me Synchro Summon
even during the battle.
No!
Sting the Poison tunes
Halberd the Charge
and Arbalest the Rapidfire.
Let's show these Topsiders
we know how to bring the sting.
We Synchro Summon!
Level 12 Battlewasp,
Ballista the Armageddon!
Now, we activate
its Special Ability.
For every Battlewasp that
I banish from the graveyard,
your monster loses 500 attack
and defense points.
Since we're banishing
five Battlewasps,
Twilight Ninja
Getsuga, the Shogun
loses a total of 2500
defense points.
Now's your chance to beat him.
Ballista the Armageddon,
attack Twilight Ninja Getsuga,
the Shogun!
And here's the stinger,
Ballista still deals you damage
even if your monster
is in defense mode.
(Moon Shadow)
No!
(Melissa)
The winner of today's
second match
is the ornery
upstart Shinji Weber!
Don't waste time
celebrating.
Focus your energy on making a
change in New Domino City.
Rise up, unite and fight!
Maybe things are finally
gonna change.
I hope for the better.
(Melissa) This was
more than just a duel.
It downright feels like the
start of a, a rebellion.
That was rather overstated.
The Commons are just letting
off a little steam.
There's absolutely
nothing to worry about.
Wouldn't you agree?
(Gray)
Your Lancer's have now
lost three in a row.
(Declan)
Yes, now Moon Shadow
will be sent
to the underground
waste refinery.
Just as I planned all along.